Update draft-ietf-quic-http.md (#1)
bslassey/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-http.md

than one, bytes after the first byte should be interpreted as coming after the 
radix point and decreasing in signifigance. For translation into comparable 64 
bit integers, an implementation could interpreted the priorities internally as 
the integer value left shifted by 64 minus the length of the field in bits. 

| Value | Encoded |  Wire  | 64-bit hex representation |
|-------|---------|--------|---------------------------|
|  2    |  0x02   |  0x02  |    0x0200000000000000     |
| 2.5   | 0x0280  | 0x4280 |    0x0280000000000000     |
| 1.25  | 0x0140  | 0x4140 |    0x0140000000000000     |

A client that has a small set of priority levels but would like to have the
delivery of resources not interlieved can achieve this by reserving the top X bits
for those priorities and the bottom 6-X bits for differentiating the resources and
not use more than one byte. So, if the implementation had four priority buckets, 
they could have 16 concurrent resources within a given priority bucket without 
risking any of them being delivered interleaved. If a priority bucket has more than
16 outstanding requests the client can use an addtional byte and handle an 

> additional 4080 requests.

Author: @ianswett does this get the concept across clearly?

Reviewer: Works for me

### PRIORITY {#frame-priority}

The PRIORITY (type=0x2) frame specifies the client-advised priority of a
request or server push.

> A PRIORITY frame identifies an element to prioritize.  A Prioritized ID 

Reviewer: Maybe I missed it, but I can't find any text on what priorities mean: ie: Send responses with higher numbered priorities first, what to do in the case of a tie.

a client-initiated request using the corresponding stream ID or a server push using
a Push ID (see {{frame-push-promise}}).

In order to ensure that prioritization is processed in a consistent order
PRIORITY frames MUST be sent on the control stream.  A
PRIORITY frame received on any other stream MUST be treated
as a stream error of type HTTP_UNEXPECTED_FRAME.

~~~~~~~~~~  drawing
 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

> |PT |   Empty   |         [Prioritized Element ID (i)]        ...

Reviewer: Prioritized Element ID is optional here.  What happens if it's absent?  If you allowed it on the request stream, then absent would presumably mean "this stream"?

Author: The text currently reads that it is only allowed on the control stream, where it would be required. Do you think that should be changed?

Reviewer: Nope, I think that's ok, but the [] around Prioritized Element ID (i) implies it's optional.  But if you're sending it on the control stream, I think it's always required?

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

> |   Priority (i) ...

Reviewer: Maybe call this Raw priority?

Author: "Priority value"? raw implies that it will get transformed into something not raw.

Reviewer: Encoded Priority?

The PRIORITY (type=0x2) frame specifies the client-advised priority of a
request, server push or placeholder.

> A PRIORITY frame identifies an element to prioritize.  A Prioritized ID identifies a client-initiated

Reviewer: This sentence is too long and isn't properly ended.

request using the corresponding stream ID, a server push using a Push ID (see
{{frame-push-promise}}), or a placeholder using a Placeholder ID (see
{{placeholders}}).

In order to ensure that prioritization is processed in a consistent order
PRIORITY frames MUST be sent on the control stream.  A

> PRIORITY frame received on a request stream MUST be treated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PRIORITY frame received on any other stream MUST be treated
```

as a stream error of type HTTP_UNEXPECTED_FRAME.

~~~~~~~~~~  drawing
 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|PT |   Empty   |         [Prioritized Element ID (i)]        ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

> |   Weight (i) ...

Reviewer: Weight -> Priority, here and below

The PRIORITY frame payload has the following fields:

  PT (Prioritized Element Type):
  : A one-bit field indicating the type of element being prioritized (see
    {{prioritized-element-types}}). When sent on a request stream, this MUST be
    set to `11`.  When sent on the control stream, this MUST NOT be set to `11`.

  
  Empty:

>   : A seven-bit field which MUST be zero when sent and MUST be ignored

Reviewer: We could make this two frame types(ie: PRIORITIZE_REQUEST and PRIORITIZE_PUSH) and avoid wasting 7 bits, but that's bikeshedding at this point in the discussion.

    {{prioritized-element-types}}). When sent on a request stream, this MUST be
    set to `11`.  When sent on the control stream, this MUST NOT be set to `11`.

  
  Empty:
  : A six-bit field which MUST be zero when sent and MUST be ignored
    on receipt.

  Prioritized Element ID:
  : A variable-length integer that identifies the element being prioritized.
    Depending on the value of Prioritized Type, this contains the Stream ID of a
    request stream, the Push ID of a promised resource, or is absent.

  Priority:
  : An unsigned variable-length integer representing a priority for the prioritized

>     element (see {{!RFC7540}}, Section 5.3). It should be interpreted as a fixed point

Reviewer: These were the lines that look odd for me and are slightly too long due to the two space indent.

    number with the radix after the first byte. For lengths greater than one, bytes after
    the first byte should be interpreted as coming after the radix point and decreasing
    in signifigance, such that 2.5 could be encoded as 0x0280, 1.25 could be encoded as

>     0x0140 and 2.000976562 could be encoded as 0x02040. For simple translation into

Reviewer: Yeah, this is not obvious to me :)

    comparable 64 bit integers, an implementation could interpreted the priorities 

>     internally as the integer value left shifted by 64 minus the length of the field in

Reviewer: This last definition I completely get and is simple.

Reviewer: I think an example would be very helpful here.

Author: I added the same examples from above interpreted back from encoded values as examples

    {{prioritized-element-types}}). When sent on a request stream, this MUST be
    set to `11`.  When sent on the control stream, this MUST NOT be set to `11`.

  
  Empty:
  : A six-bit field which MUST be zero when sent and MUST be ignored
    on receipt.

  Prioritized Element ID:
  : A variable-length integer that identifies the element being prioritized.
    Depending on the value of Prioritized Type, this contains the Stream ID of a

>     request stream, the Push ID of a promised resource, or is absent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    request stream or the Push ID of a promised resource.
```

  Encoded Priority:
  : An unsigned variable-length integer representing a priority for the 

>     prioritized element (see {{!RFC7540}}, Section 5.3). It should be 

Reviewer: should -> can

>     prioritized element (see {{!RFC7540}}, Section 5.3). It should be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    prioritized element (see {{!RFC7540}}, Section 5.3). It can be 
```

    interpreted as a fixed point number with the radix after the first byte. For
    lengths greater than one, bytes after the first byte should be interpreted 
    as coming after the radix point and decreasing in signifigance, such that 
    2.5 could be encoded as 0x0280, 1.25 could be encoded as 0x0140 and 

>     2.000976562 could be encoded as 0x02040. For simple translation into 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2.000976562 could be encoded as 0x02040. For translation into 
```

>     comparable 64 bit integers, an implementation could interpreted the 

Reviewer: Suggestion: "Alternately, an implementation can convert the value into a 64 bit integer by left shifting by 64 minus the length of the field in bits."

I think the integer version is easier to understand, so I would put that first, personally.

    priorities internally as the integer value left shifted by 64 minus the 
    length of the field in bits. In this senarior encoded 0x02 would be
    interpreted as 0x0200000000000000 or 144115188075855872, 0x0280 would be
    interpreted as 0x0280000000000000 or 180143985094819840 and 0x0140 would be
    interpreted as 0x0140000000000000 or 90071992547409920.

The values for the Prioritized Element Type ({{prioritized-element-types}}) imply
the interpretation of the associated Element ID fields.

| PT Bits | Type Description | Prioritized Element ID Contents |
| ------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------- |
| 00      | Request stream   | Stream ID                       |
| 01      | Push stream      | Push ID                         |

> | 11      | Current stream   | Absent                          |

Reviewer: You made Current stream illegal above, so I think this field can now be 1 bit and you can remove 11.

    request stream, the Push ID of a promised resource, a Placeholder ID of a

>     placeholder, or is absent.

Reviewer: Remove the concept of placeholders

  Weight:
  : An unsigned variable-length integer representing a priority weight for the prioritized

>     element (see {{!RFC7540}}, Section 5.3). The value should be interpretted as the integer

Reviewer: interpretted -> interpreted and the line is too long

>     value left shifted by 64 minus the lenght of the field in bits. 

Reviewer: Not a super-obvious explanation

HTTP/3 uses a priority scheme similar to that described in {{!RFC7540}}, Section
5.3. In this priority scheme, a given element can be designated as dependent
upon another element. This information is expressed in the PRIORITY frame
{{frame-priority}} which identifies the element. The elements
that can be prioritized are:

- Requests, identified by the ID of the request stream
- Pushes, identified by the Push ID of the promised resource
  ({{frame-push-promise}})

Due to reordering between streams, an element can also be prioritized which is
not yet in the tree. Such elements are added to the tree with the requested
priority.

When a prioritized element is first created, it has a default initial priority
of 16.

> Requests may override the default initial values by including a PRIORTIY frame

Reviewer: Not anymore they can't :)
